Previously. on The Testaments...
Blessings on Rebecca Grove.
who is to marry
soon-to-be Commander Chapin.
And Agnes Mackenzie.
who is to wed Commander Weston.
a man chosen by God to lead and protect.
I can't be around Becka's dad.
He did things to me.
Not just me.
You need to tell Aunt Lydia.
I already did tell her.
And what's she gonna do about it?
I'm really glad you told me.
I decided I was going
to protect those girls...
because no one else was gonna do it.
You have been a bad girl.
You need to floss more.
- That's it?
- Yeah.
He tried to touch me!
Please. please. please. protect me!
- You made it up?
- He's been abusing them.
Someone had to do something.
I have nothing to be ashamed of.
I didn't lay a finger on that Pearl Girl.
Why are you defending her?
'Cause she's not lying.
How do you know?
He did it... to me.
Let us pray:
"Purge me in hyssop. and I shall be clean.
"Wash me. and I shall be whiter than snow.
"Create in me a clean heart. O God.
and renew a right spirit within me."
He can't hurt you anymore.
- It's divine justice.
- What did you do?
No. no. no! No. no!
- You called the Eyes?
- Agnes!
I really thought you were
sending her to the doctor.
No! Agnes! Agnes!
After it was all over.
I found the coroner's report.
"The following autopsy was performed
in accordance with Gilead law.
"The body is that of a well-developed.
"well-nourished adult.
white Christian male.
"Cause of death:
"exsanguination due to multiple
sharp-force injuries.
"caused by an edged weapon.
"The lungs. liver. and subclavian artery
were all mortally damaged.
"Defensive wounds penetrate
the hands and upper extremities.
"Multiple stab wounds
of lower extremities.
"including genitalia.
"ranging from one to four inches deep.
"The damage well exceeds what would
have been necessary to kill the victim.
indicating a spirited attacker."
What is happening with you and Becka?
My mom told our Martha
that there's a scandal brewing.
It's none of your blessed business.
She doesn't want to talk about it.
Then you know what it is?
Shu. butt the fuck out.
I'm gonna have a 12-piece orchestra
with a piccolo flute.
So elegant.
You guys! What is it?
Agnes?
Agnes. What's going on?
Agnes. are you okay?
Praise be the Lord.
He would like us all to gather
in the dining hall at once.
Please make your way.
Don't agitate her.
Oh!
Dear child.
Have you eaten?
Those aren't necessary!
Take them off!
We will sort this out. dear.
Aunt Lydia.
the Commander is here.
He will speak with you now.
What are we gonna do about Rebecca?
We're not gonna do anything.
She murdered her father.
A man of Gilead was slain by a woman.
Your pupil.
Let's not pretend he was a man of God.
We both know his conduct.
He was to be executed.
That's of very little relevance now.
What's important is that
we minimize the fallout.
So. she is to be sacrificed?
On the altar of "fallout"?
Maybe not.
Well. she's a fruitful girl.
I'm sure the Red Center
would be happy to have her.
A Handmaid?
It's probably the Wall.
Allowing her to become
a Handmaid would be merciful.
Either way. the court
will dictate her fate.
No! We can't let that happen.
There is no "we" anymore.
Blessed day. Aunt Lydia.
Girls. I have some sad news to share.
But share it I must.
It is regarding one of our own.
Rebecca Grove.
Rebecca will no longer be attending school
for the foreseeable future...
due to the untimely passing
of her father. Dr. Grove.
Of course. our prayers
are with the Grove family
during this tragic time.
Let us offer the comfort of the Lord.
We shall not forget that He
is near the broken-hearted.
The righteous cry out.
and the Lord hears them.
He delivers them
from all their troubles.
Let Him deliver us.
Let Him hear our prayer.
Let Him hold us in our sorrow.
for without Him. we would be lost.
Is she alright?
- You shouldn't be out here.
- Where'd they take her?
You said she was going to the doctor.
Tell me where she is. Please!
It's a holding facility for women.
I don't know where it is.
She was screaming!
I know.
I'm sorry.
Agnes? Agnes Mackenzie!
Get your hands off of her right now!
- Can't you see she's upset?
- You unhand her right now. young man!
No. You know what happened to her friend.
Show some grace.
Are you okay?
I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
If I were to tell
Aunt Lydia about this.
you would be thrown out
of this school on your ear.
Agnes!
Snap out of it. please!
Now go on.
Get to class with the rest.
What happened with Becka's dad?
Are you okay?
Agnes. you look like
you've seen the Devil.
Where's Becka?
- She was take by the Eyes.
- Out!
No. Out!
Get out. right now! Bye!
She came to my house covered in blood.
Whose blood?
She was covered in it.
It was all over her.
What did she do?
What's gonna happen to her?
The Eyes took her.
We're never gonna see her again.
Maybe they'll show her mercy.
They don't show mercy. Ever.
We're gonna have to do something. then.
To help her.
You're right.
Wait. A... Agnes?!
What are you doing to help Becka?
Agnes. we are offering her
support in this difficult time...
I know what happened.
I know the Eyes took her.
What are you doing to protect Becka?
Come with me. please.
- What is she doing?
- Sacking the fuck up.
Being brave.
Tell Aunt Gabbana I had
to go to the nurse's office.
- With what?
- I'll say it's cramps. Go!
Agnes. you must understand.
God is our refuge and our strength.
He is the only one
who can save Becka.
No! No. that's not good enough.
You are the instrument of God!
You have to do something.
There's nothing I can do. Agnes.
- Then you lied to us.
- Agnes!
You said if we obeyed you.
if we obeyed God.
you would guide us and protect us!
And did Becka obey the Lord?
She struck her father in cold blood.
She thought she was doing God's will!
As you taught us!
"Blessed are those who thirst for justice.
for they shall be satisfied."
By His hand!
If she was led astray. you did it.
I will have Aunt Estee call your mother.
You're upset.
I will pray for Rebecca.
I prayed for Becka too.
I prayed she might have
someone to defend her.
Alright. you know what. you can't
just talk to me whenever you want.
- It's too risky.
- Mayday needs to help Becka.
There's nothing they can do.
Becka's gonna get executed.
Do you even care?
You're the man.
- with the gun...
- What?
...and you can't do anything?
If you don't help her. I will.
And how do you plan on doing that?
By not sitting on my ass.
You sound like a child.
Fuck you... Commander.
And fuck Mayday.
You're just gonna get yourself killed.
And me.
And a lot of other Mayday operatives.
Okay by me.
I quit.
I can't just do nothing.
Fuck.
How kind of you
to pay us a visit. Commander.
The wedding plans are coming along nicely.
Uh. I just... I know that Rebecca's
a dear friend of Agnes.
I was just hoping that
I could offer some comfort.
Oh. How lovely.
Hmm. Perhaps we could have some tea?
Of course.
- Of course.
- Thank you.
Mm-hmm.
How are you doing?
I appreciate your concern.
And I appreciate that
you didn't answer my question.
Here's the thing. Agnes.
You and I are gonna be
husband and wife soon.
so my concerns are your concerns.
And your concerns are mine.
Do you mean that?
Of course I do.
The Eyes have Becka
in one of their prisons.
Can you help her?
Unfortunately...
Becka broke the laws of God.
But her father broke
the laws of God first.
It doesn't excuse her
taking justice into her own hands.
Would it matter if she was doing it
to protect your future wife?
I don't understand.
I was one of the girls he hurt.
I'm so sorry.
Do your parents know?
No.
Thank you for being honest with me.
I will do whatever I can for your friend.
- Thank you.
- Of course.
This is Radio Free Boston
at the four o'clock hour.
For all you Mayday operatives out there.
turn your dial to 101.6.
And remember. folks.
don't let the bastards grind you down.
And this is for the Shepherd.
I got your message.
Let's take care
of our loose cannon tonight.
This one's busted.
Oh. my baby!
God bless you.
Mrs. Grove. you need to understand
this is only temporary.
Your daughter will be
questioned in a few days
and then remanded to the state.
'Til then. you'll have
24-hour surveillance.
Thank you for bringing her home.
I'm sorry. Mom.
Other side. other side!
Get in.
It gets cold.
It'll be a few hours.
Where are we going?
You want me to get in here?
Yeah. there's enough room if you curl up.
- What the fuck?
- Get in.
Jesus.
Look. if we get stopped.
don't make any noise.
Even if you hear voices. okay?
- Come on. hurry up!
- Okay. okay. okay.
Okay. okay. okay. Okay.
Watch your fingers.
Hi. Daisy.
Holy shit.
It's so good to see you.
I knew you'd step up.
- Are you gonna get Becka out?
- No. We're getting you out.
- What?
- Come on.
No. no. no. no. no.
That's not what I want to do anymore.
You haven't been listening
to your handler. Daisy.
You've been threatening Mayday.
You've become a liability.
Because I won't let
my friend get executed?
Rita warned you this would happen.
I warned you.
Sometimes. you are going
to have to stand by
and watch people you care about
become collateral damage.
and it's gonna feel like shit.
She's not collateral. Not to me.
And she doesn't have to be damaged.
And I'm not standing by.
That's the whole fucking point!
We are going to win. Daisy.
But you cannot put the people
who are fighting for that at risk
just because you think
one person is special. alright?
Get in the boat!
I'm not just gonna give up on them.
Like you.
I might never get
my daughter. Hannah. back.
But I will die fighting so that
she can experience freedom.
As a woman.
As a human being!
That's what I'm trying to do.
I'm trying to fight to save these girls.
- and you're telling me not to.
- You cannot save them yet!
They don't know they need saving!
Let me try.
If you knew them.
you would give me a chance.
They have crushes
and things that they want.
and they find a way to live real lives.
Becka's so strong.
She did some crazy shit
to protect her friends.
to protect Agnes.
Hulda doesn't have
a mean bone in her body.
And Shunammite?
She'd cut a bitch to defend
her friends. seriously.
- These girls are all just...
- Is she your age?
- Agnes. Is she your age?
- Yeah.
Agnes Mackenzie?
Oh. my God.
She's yours.
She's the one you left behind.
What's she like?
She's one of the bravest
people I've ever met.
She's beautiful and kind.
She thinks she's funny.
but she's not so much. actually.
She's just a really good person.
She's the one that we all want
to be like. ya know?
Is she happy?
She could be.
They all could be.
I can do this.
You know I can.
Fuck it. you knew it even before I did.
We gotta go!
No.
No. Daisy. I'm sorry.
but I am not gonna risk another one.
I am not gonna let you die.
You may be okay
failing at this. I'm not.
It's my turn now.
I might fail. and I might even die.
But it's my choice.
You need to learn to believe
in someone other than yourself. June.
First of all...
you have no idea who I am
or what I have been through. young lady.
Do you understand me?
Second of all.
I am gonna need you to stay safe.
Alright?
I don't think I can... to be honest.
Fine.
May God protect you.
I think She will.
Godspeed. Daisy.
Have you come to gloat?
I'm sorry?
With such a monumental failure.
the reputation of this school
is soon to be brought into question.
Rest assured. you'll have
no trouble pushing me out.
You never liked me.
Even before.
Why not?
Because everything came so easily to you.
Some of us had to fight for our place.
You were willing to kill me
in that stadium!
Is that what you call
fighting for your place?
Oh. God.
You have no idea how things came to me.
You never asked.
You don't have to be a lone wolf. Lydia.
We could work together.
Why would I want to do that?
For Becka.
I was reminded today
that we are God's instruments.
We mustn't be like the man stranded
who rejects the plane and the boat.
waiting for God to save him.
Oh. shit.
I knew we didn't have
enough time to get you back.
Act normal.
Leave the coat in the van. Let's go.
Whoa. whoa. whoa. whoa.
They know you're missing.
- What are you doing?
- Take a drag.
- Have you lost your fucking mind...
- For once. will you just do what
I tell you to do?!
- Trust me. this is your best shot.
- Okay. okay.
Hey! I got her!
Gimme that. Let's go.
Smoking is an evil habit.
But I know from personal experience.
it's a hard habit to break.
I'm sorry. Aunt Lydia...
I couldn't sleep.
We expect Pearl Girls to have
a period of adjustment...
but you have been here long enough.
No excuses.
You know the rules by now.
You will go to Corrections
with Aunt Estee.
She is waiting for you outside.
Yes... Aunt Lydia.
I was worried about Becka.
That's why I couldn't sleep.
Becka is my concern. not yours.
But I was the one who exposed Dr. Grove.
I think it's good you feel
the weight of responsibility.
I feel that for all of you.
I have always strived to be
a Mother to God's lost children.
Mothers would do anything
for their children.
I know some mothers
whose only reason for living
is to save their daughters.
Mothers who would die for them.
What are you doing to save Becka?
Have a graceful day.
Commander Weston
got special dispensation for us to visit.
But our time is limited.
With the Lord as her strength
and her shield.
Becka will get through this.
But what happens when they question her?
She just needs to tell them the truth.
Let's go over the events. dear.
You heard a noise in the bathroom.
You went upstairs to find your mother
standing over the bathtub.
with the pruning shears in her hands.
What?
You discovered that your mother
had killed your father.
You tried to resuscitate him.
That's how you got his blood on you.
- Uh...
- But it was too late.
No. No. that... that's...
That is not what happened.
It's what should've happened.
No.
- But they already know. They. they know...
- They will accept this new testimony.
along with your mother's confession.
They know you would have said
anything to protect her.
For the bond between mother and child
is sacred and unbreakable.
Let us pray.
The Lord is my light and my salvation.
whom shall I fear?
The Lord is the stronghold of my life.
of whom shall I be afraid?
When the wicked advance
against me to devour me.
it is my enemies
who will stumble and fall.
Agnes?
I received a call
from Commander Weston this afternoon.
He's decided to break off your engagement.
He said it was because of your
close ties with the Grove scandal
and needing to distance himself from it.
It struck me as a lot of nonsense.
Do you have any idea why he would do this?
No.
If I had any recourse.
I'd march that overly-pious piece of shit
before the Council myself
to take some accountability...
Dad? What's gonna happen?
I'll do everything in my power...
to prevent this from hurting you.
And what about Becka?
Becka's going to be okay.
She is? How?
Her mother gave a statement.
It turns out...
she's the one who killed Dr. Grove.
Not Becka.
Are you happy now?
No... I'm not.
Good.
No one gets to be happy then.
I don't think I deserve this. Agnes.
I really don't.
I helped you every step of the way.
I taught you everything I know.
I devoted all of my time to your success.
What did you do to scare him off?
I don't know.
"I don't know."
Yes. you do.
Men don't leave for no reason.
Your friend got sucked
under the quicksand.
and you allowed yourself to get
pulled right down with her.
Becka's been spared.
"Spared"?
Sp... Spared?
What...
What life will she have?
She's fallen.
Sullied too. probably.
Who would even have her now?
What about Garth?
No one would expect him
to honor his proposal.
And he'd be a fool to not take the out.
I should have known this would happen.
From a sinful beginning
comes a sinful nature.
After that Handmaid attack.
Gilead wanted to make her pay.
They wanted to serve you up
piece by piece.
Do you understand?
Send her a toe.
A finger.
An earlobe.
But your father wouldn't
allow it to happen.
Your ingratitude is astounding!
- Have you lost your mind?
- Don't let her be a fallen woman!
Marry her.
Marry Becka.
I don't think I can do that.
given the circumstances.
You're a man.
You can do anything you want.
I've thrown my whole life away
to help Becka.
Now it's your turn.
People wouldn't understand why I did it.
But I would.
Do you know how hard it is...
for me to ask you...
of all people...
to do this?
Please.
I know. but this is best.
All this unpleasantness
will be behind you. I promise.
Soon as you're married.
you'll have God
- and a husband to protect you.
- I want my mom.
Please. Please. please. please.
Everything is gonna be okay.
I know...
Because you're here.
In accordance
with the Divine laws of Gilead...
I hereby bestow upon you. Garth Chapin.
the title...
and the responsibility of Commander.
Thank you. sir.
The accused stands convicted of murder.
Violation of Matthew 5:21.
by His word.
In the name of God and his servants
here on Earth. she is hereby sentenced
to the common mercy of the state.
May God bless this union.
May He make it fruitful.
Guided by the sacred laws of matrimony...
may you serve Him.
May you serve the great nation of Gilead.
And may you serve one another.
Under His eye.
I now pronounce you man and wife.
How do you feel?
Well. it's done.
They're married.
I was always so scared I would
mess up my life. and now I have.
Paula was right.
I ruined everything.
Sorry.
Don't be.
It was worth it.
You've got a rather
overdeveloped sense of justice.
Do you know where that comes from?
- No.
- I do.
You're exactly like her.
Who?
Your mother... June Osborne.
The terrorist?!
Why would you say that?
- Why would you say something like that?!
- She isn't a terrorist.
She fights for what she believes in.
Just like you do.
- How would you know?
- I met her once.
Your mother wasn't just a Handmaid.
She was the Handmaid.
I don't believe you.
I think your name is Hannah.
Dear June.
You probably think I'm nuts.
Maybe I am.
But being here has changed me.
Knowing these girls has changed me.
I know you think I don't listen.
But I heard you.
Agnes Mackenzie.
We find ourselves in uncharted waters.
We've never had a Green come back.
Yes. Aunt Lydia.
Your broken engagement
is a mark against you. I'm afraid.
We have some hurdles to overcome.
Including my lineage. Aunt Lydia.
My mother is June Osborne.
The criminal.
I knew your mother.
Quite well. actually.
One thing I can say about her
is that she never gave up.
And neither will we.
These girls
are stronger than you think.
Maybe God made them that way.
Or maybe. they just came out that way.
Strong as hell.
But I'm gonna do what Mayday couldn't.
I'm going to destroy Gilead
with what it values most.
I'm staying in the fight.
and I'm gonna create my own army.
Because nothing can be more powerful
than a teenage girl.